
# Benchmark #0: test of all metrics with noterminal output to a file

## Test Setup

### Control Variables

- Both Raspberry Pi 4 and Raspberry Pi 5 are brand new and have never been utilized.
- The software that's going to be incorporated is the exact same on both devices.
- Both devices are powered by their respective power supplies (3 A vs 5 A).
- Both devices are equipped with the standard Raspberry Pi fan with PWM control capabilities HOWEVER, we will conduct the 2 test without the fan with each microcontroller to see if the fan has any effect on the performance.
- Both devices are connected to the same network and and will utilize only the wireless connection for the tests.
- Both devices are connected to the will have no external devices connected to them during the tests besides power and the wireless connection (we will modify this in the next benchmarks).
- Both devices are running the latest version of Raspberry Pi OS (64-bit) with all updates installed. 
- Both devices are running the same version of the benchmarking software.
- Both devices will be in the same room with the same ambient temperature with the Rpi fan attached but turned off.
- Both rpis have metal enclosures for optimal heat dissapation. 
- And lastly, we
- Both devices are connected to the same network and will utilize only the wireless connection for the tests.
- both devices are connected to the will have no external devices connected to them during the tests besides power and the wireless connection (we will modify this in the next benchmarks).


### Installing rpi connect

To install rpi connect, run the following commands (according to the official documentation):

== Install

To begin installation, open a Terminal window. Run the following command to update your system and packages:

----
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt upgrade
----

Run the following command on your Raspberry Pi to install Connect:

----
$ sudo apt install rpi-connect
----

After installation, reboot your Raspberry Pi or xref:connect.adoc#manually-start-connect[manually start the Connect service] to use Connect:

----
$ sudo reboot
----

Connect will automatically start the next time you log in to your Raspberry Pi.

=== Connect Lite

We distribute an alternate *Lite* variant of Connect that only supports remote shell access, with no ability to screen share.

Run the following command on your Raspberry Pi to install Connect Lite:

[source,console]
----
$ sudo apt install rpi-connect-lite
----

Reboot your Raspberry Pi or xref:connect.adoc#manually-start-connect[manually start the Connect service] to use Connect.

Consider xref:connect.adoc#enable-remote-shell-at-all-times[enabling user lingering] to make your device accessible even when your user account isn't logged in.

TIP: Lite commands use the same `rpi-connect` name as the full version of Connect. `rpi-connect-lite` is just a package name.

=== Manually start Connect

NOTE: By default, Connect automatically starts at login. You don't need to manually start Connect after it starts for the first time unless you remove it from your login items.

To start the service manually from the command line, run the following command:

[source,console]
----
$ systemctl --user start rpi-connect
----


### Installing the Benchmarking Software





Note: I tried to keep the control variables as consistent as possible to ensure a fair comparison between the two devices, I definitely welcome any suggestions on how to improve the test setup, but I essentially wanted to keep the test as simple as possible to the average use cases.

<!-- TODO: Add a diagram of the test setup -->

### Metrics Captured